---
layout: post
title:  "Online Censorship"
date:   2016-04-10 21:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

Government conducts online censorship to keep the public from certain news and activities in the country to maintain social and political balance. It limits the information the public could access, and it is a great threat to social and economical advancement. It also violates freedom of speech and individual's right to know about the truth of their country and government.

According to the <a href="http://abcnews.go.com/Technology/story?id=4707107&page=1">reading</a>, here are the ways that Chinese government enforces online censorship. First, bottlenecks are created so that all information from outside need to flow through a few computer centers. Second, the government check internet traffic for subversive materials, so that connection to banned websites are refused. Third, the authorities hold commercial webistes responsible for what appears on them, so that web managers need to take down "inappropriate" materials. Fourth, the government has propagenda that informs people to abide by online etiquette. Finally, Chinese government also have outside tech support to do the internet monitoring.

I think it is unethical for the government to enforce online censorship, and the technology company should not be blamed if they have to follow the request of the government. The responsibility lies in the government, not the tech companies. It is obviously the company's choice whether to operate in the country or not, but I don't see anything wrong for compromizing in order to provide service to people who need it. Moreover, online censorship is not all bad. Freedom of speech needs to be enforced as long as the "speech" does not hurt other people and the society in general. If someone intentionaly damage another person's reputation by spreading false information, tech companies should limit this kind bad "freedom".

I think it is ethical for tech companies and developers to provide tools that circumvent such restrictions. It is illegle of course, but not every law is morally correct. Tools that circumvent such restrictions not only provide a window for people to enjoy uncensored information, but also important for travellers who need some crucial internet services, like GMail. 

The great firewall in China is definitely something that limits the technological and social advancement of China, but on the other hand, the situation might not be as bad as it seems. You can easily get a VPN and circumvent the Great Firewall in China. Whenever I go back home, I always get one and am able to use Google, Facebook, even Youtube without any problem. Moreover, the Great Firewall could have some benefits for Chinese society. China is a big country with a large population, and any political issue would scale up and become great challenge with that many people. The Firewall in some sense helps prevent some social conflicts in China, so that people could focus on developing the economy. China is still developing really fast, and having a peaceful society is benefitial for everyone. Just as the Chinese government and media often report biased information to Chinese citizens, western media also skews people's opinion on Chinese society and government through incomplete report and biased opinions. I am not claiming that I support the Firewall in China; this is just another perspective to look at things because people often take certain opinions for granted and neglect their own problems.