---
layout: post
title:  "Reflection on Startup"
date:   2016-01-30 21:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

why is creating startups all the rage at the moment? What are the benefits of creating or joining a startup? What are the dangers or downsides? Did joining or creating a startup factor in your employment decision or do you hope to create one in the future? Why or why not?

Everyone is talking about startups now, especially in the tech industry. I think startups represent a kind of dream or lifestyle for a lot of people. The numerous success stories also increase the popularity of startups. Mark Zuckberg made Facebook while he was still in college, and then quickly made tons of money by his thirties. This success story seems so tangible, because it seems his success is something we could achieve too. As long as you work hard, have the right idea, know how to program, then there is a chance that you could make the next big thing. In the article <a href="http://paulgraham.com/wealth.html">How to Make Wealth</a>, the author offers the answer for making wealth: joining a startup. There seem to be a consensus that working at a big company cannot make the best use of your potential, and that only by joining startups can you become rich overnight. And the author of the previous article gives us a careful explanation for why startups are always a better choice than big companies. While I think a lot of the ideas in this article are very original and illuminating, there are some important things missing. It does a good job explaining how to make wealth, but it doesn't necessarily offer a formula for everyone to be happy.

The benefits for joining a startup are heavily discussed. If the startup becomes successful, you could become extremely rich overnight. You will become a successful entrepreneur that everyone looks up to. Moreover, startups usually have really small teams, and you could have more flexibility to move around and learn a lot of things. This small and compact environment is also great for building relationship with some great people. Many people would think that being at a startup makes peole feel more fulfilling, as a big company one can easily get lost and it's hard to see one's contribution to the company.

However, joining startups is not all good. Although potentially offer great returns, a lot of startups pay significantly less than big established companies. Besides, there is no guarentee that the startup you join will become successful. There are so many companies out there, and luck is really a important factor for a company's success. Therefore, being at a startup means more risk, with possibally high return. Also, working at a startup seems to be very stressful. Unless you manage to maintain a balanced life, it's easy to have really unhealthy lifestyle while working at a startup.

I don't think I want to join a startup right after I graduate, and I don't think I would join a company just because it is a startup. For me, the actual work I will do and the core values of the company matter the most to me. I need to understand and appreciate a company's value in order to really enjoy working there. I don't think making a startup is one of my goals, but I don't reject the idea either. I just want to find out what I want to do with my life and computer science. If there is something I want to achieve, or some problem I want to solve, and it involves starting a company, I would do it. For me creating a startup is never the end goal, but a means to an end.