---
layout: post
title:  "Cloud Computing"
date:   2016-02-28 14:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

Cloud computing is the technology to harness connected machines and provide service to customers through the internet. The data storage and computation are all done on the remote machine, and users could retrieve the results through the internet or other network. It has become extremely popular recently. Large amount of data processing could be done efficiently by using the great computational power provided by the distributed system. Cloud service has become popular with individual consumers as well, since it is very convenient to access and the service does not require maintenance from the customers. For example, people can access documents stored in Google Drive from any computer whereever they are. And people don't quite have to worry about running out of storage, as long as they do not have huge amount of data files.

I don't really use Cloud as a development platform on a day to day basis. There are a few services that I have used. The smartwatch maker Pebble has a online IDE and I used it a few times. I really like the experience since I do not need to install anyting on my local computer, and I don't have to worry about all these external dependencies. However, maybe because they platform was pretty new when I used it, it was really buggy. And sometimes compilation just failed for no reason. It is really frustrating because I have no control over the platform. If it fails there is nothing I could do to fix it. It is a really aweful feeling for a developer. There are also some online JavaScript IDEs, and some interviews are conducted via online IDEs for basic C/C++/Java/Python etc. They are pretty convenient to use, but I just used them for quick sketch up of a small algorithm, or some experimentation. I don't think they are powerful and reliable enough for serious software engineering. However, cloud platform is really useful for data processing. Although not always reliable, the cloud is crutial for speeding up some computationally heavy tasks, and I would definitely choose to use the cloud system in those situations.

As a consumer, I almost cannot live without the Cloud. I use Google Drive to store my documents, and Google docs have become the essential tool for group projects. I also use Spotify, which stores all my favorite music. Cloud services are very convenient, but they also come with risks. Using Cloud service means we trust the companies providing them. By using these services, we accept the risks that they might become unavailable sometimes. Moreover, the cloud services also have the risk of leaking user data. Just like what is mentioned in the article <a href="http://bits.blogs.nytimes.com/2014/12/02/computing-goes-to-the-cloud-so-does-crime/?_r=0">Computing Goes to the Cloud. So Does Crime</a>, hackers target cloud systems for personal data. This is scary, because we don't have any control over these systems.

As Cloud service is becoming more and more popular, many more ethical issues would come up. The unstable infrastructure, as well as the potential security risks are all worth considering. However, I think one of the most important concerns now is the public's lack of understanding of the Cloud. Most consumers using the Cloud service are not Computer Science majors, and they probably don't even realize all these potential risks associated with the services they love. Companies providing these services won't highlight those risks. We need more regulation and education for the public to understand the implications of their choices. Cloud service itself is good, but getting customers without informing them of the potential risks is unethical.



