---
layout: post
title:  "Apple Case"
date:   2016-02-18 14:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

From the readings and in your opiniong, should technology companies implement backdoors in their products for the benefit of the government? Are companies like Apple ethically responsible for protecting the privacy of their users or are they ethically responsible for helping to prevent violent or harmful activities that their platforms may enable? How are these two conflicting goals to be balanced in a world of free-flowing communication and extreme terrorism?

If you are supportive of government backdoors, how do you response to concerns of privacy and intrusion? Are worries about Big Brother simply paranoia? When and why does national security trump individual privacy?

This is definitely a hard question to answer. I've seen a lot of people  expressing their support for Apple's letter to customers, but I am actually a little bit uncertain about my own stand on this issue. Should the shooter's iphone be unlocked to fight terrorism and save innocent lives? Absolutely(Maybe someone would argue that the shooter has privacy too, but I would ignore this argument). Should people have privacy and right to communicate with others without attack? Yes I think so, as long as they are not hurting other people. I think people are obsessed with individual rights, but they often ignore the responsibility that comes with the right. If everyone feels like he/she is entitled to do anything, then no one can actually do anything. However, based on further reading, I think the Apple case is more complicated than I thought. Apple's new saftety feature would make it impossible to unlock the phone, then should we sacrifice customers' privacy so that government can have better control of terrorism, or potentially the public in general? It's hard to say.

However, I don't think Apple, and many other tech companies, should be praised for the stance they take. It almost seems obvious what is most benefitial for their business. Working with the government will defintely hurt their reputation among customers, although it might help reduce terorrism. People pay for their products to get better security.

Although I am not really sure where I stand, I might be leaning towards government backdoor at this point. I agree what is said <a href="https://www.lawfareblog.com/thoughts-encryption-and-going-dark-part-ii-debate-merits">here</a> that internet without regulation is similar to a dark city state without rules and laws. In order for the society to function well, we cannot have everyone do whatever he/she wants. As for the risk of being attacked by hackers, it is something we could work on to improve without sacrificing the regulations that keep our society healthy. Yes I agree we need to respect privacy, and government backdoors increase the risk of losing this privacy. However, I think right now to fight terrorism, we need to take a little bit more risk for something much important for humanity as a whole. No one wants to sacrifice their rights or privacy, but when I think about all these innocent people that might be killed in terrorist attack, I would choose to give up a little bit of my own security.

Moreover, I believe the advancement in technology will bring us some new technology that can keep both personal privacy and fight terrorism. If we choose unregulated personal privacy now, then there would be little or no incentive for people to keep improving on what we have now. I think we could afford to lose a little bit now for something benefitial for the society, and work hard to make better technology that serve our needs. In the end, technology is a service that people use, and they need to be aware of the potential risk and tradeoff they need to make in order to enjoy the service.