---
layout: post
title:  "Reverse Engineering"
date:   2016-03-20 14:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

Based on the Wikipedia page for <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digital_Millennium_Copyright_Act">DMCA</a>, it imposes restrictions for using digital goods in order to protect intellectual property. It outlines certain kinds of digital works protected under technological control access that people cannot circumvent. Users of copyrighted artifacts cannot reverse engineer a technology product. They cannot break the encryption of the product to gain full control of the product, or copy a digital work etc.

According to the article <a href="http://www.wired.com/2008/10/ten-years-later/">10 Years Later, Misunderstood DMCA is the Law That Saved the Web</a>, the DMCA rule is enacted before the web technology flourished, but it has huge influence on the web content today. The DMCA rule helps regulate the websites, blogs, e-commerce etc, but the fact that it was published long before these products also means that it is not perfect. The article mentions that the DMCA has a notice-and-takedown regime, which means that if Youtube received a notice that some content violates copyright, it must immediately take the contents down. This rule could give people ways to abuse the system. As mentioned in the article, someone sent thousands of notice to Youtube, and Youtube needs to take these videos down immediately without any investigation. 


I think it is ethical for companies to use DRM schemes to protech their intellectual property. Companies invest in time and efforts to do research and develop products, and they have the right to have full control over their property. Some people think DRM limites the technological advancement, and it is true to some extent. If the door lock company disallow anyone else to produce products that pair with its door lock, then it would definitely limit the amount of innovation and development we could have for door locks. However, we cannot use this argument to hurt the company who develops and owns the product. The company should be the one to choose for the greater good, and it shouldn't be forced to make the choice. 

However, I don't think it is immoral to circumvent the DRM for easier use for the users, if the cirvumvention does not hurt the benefit of the company. I don't see any wrong to rip the DVD from physical media to a portable device, as long as the user does not send or distribute the media file to other people. The profit of the media company is not hurt, and the user should also have full right to the product he/she purchase. Also, I don't think it is ethical for engineers to circumvent a tool to fix a bug in software. As long as they do not use the reverse engineered product to hurt the company's profit, I think it is actually more benefitial for the society to have these circirmvention tools. The article <a href="http://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2013/03/the-copyright-rule-we-need-to-repeal-if-we-want-to-preserve-our-cultural-heritage/274049/">here</a> for example, poses important problems with digital books. The protection we have now for digital books is hurting fair usage and even preservation of knowledge. Therefore, we need to think very careful about the rules to bring the most benefit to society. 

