---
layout: post
title:  "Diversity in Tech"
date:   2016-02-07 14:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

From the readings and in your opinion, is the lack of diversity a problem in the technology industry? Is it something that needs to be addressed or is it just a (possibly unfortunate) reality?

If you believe it is a problem, then what are some obstacles faced by women and minorities? Why do these challenges exist and how could the technology industry (or society in general) work to remove these barriers and encourage more participation from women and minorities?


In my opinion, the lack of diversity in the technology industry is defintely a problem that needs to be addressed. Tech industry is dominated by white/Asian male, and the leadership roles are almost exlusively white. In order to make products or advancements that benefit everyone, we need representatives of different people to work together and contribute different perspectives. For example, the air bags in cars killed a lot of women and children when it first came out, and this is because there was almost no women engineer on the testing team and the male engineers never thought about testing with women's or children's size. Therefore the lack of diversity in tech industry is definitely problematic. Although I believe that men and women are different in many aspects, I think they have equal potential to do well in tech. Moreover, the numbers in the ariticle <a href="http://www.npr.org/sections/money/2014/10/21/357629765/when-women-stopped-coding">When Women Stopped Coding</a> show that while other engineering disciplines see a growth in women participants, the number of female students in computer science actually declined. All these worrying facts show that there is something missing from the tech industry which is causing all these diversity problems. Therefore, we need to inspect the current system and learn about are things we could do to nurture a more inclusive atmosphere.

There are several obstacles faced by women and minorities. The most important one is probably the social stereotype of "coders" or "hackers". As is discussed in "When Women Stopped Coding", movies associate computer science with "awkward geek boy genius uses tech savvy to triumph over adversity and win the girl", and families tend to foster intests for boys and girls according to existing social norms. I think these social stereotypes are what keep girls from even touching computer. They blindly believe that computer science is not for girls, or girls just cannot do as good as boys in this subject. And they give up even before they try. Meanwhile, boys start to play with computers and become interested, and then really good at it by the time of college. Then we have these computer genius in college that reinforce our social stereotype for programmers - that males are just naturally good at computers.

One of the most important things to do to get more diversity in tech is probably a more inclusive culture and education. We need to encourage girls' interest in computer science from an early age, and we also need to cut off the "tech superiority" emerged in the industry. Yes computer science is hard, but it is like anything else that requires hard work. While we might feel proud being able to code and make "magic" happen, we also need to be humble and realize it is a skill that anyone has a chance to master. In this way, people who start late in computing career path would have more confidence, and thus more girls and minorities who do not have much experience with computer science would have more courage to pursue their interest. I think a big problem, especially in college or high school education, is that the advanced "tech genius" make computer science seem to be an extremely difficult major that few could catch up if they start late. However, the truth is, life is so long that a few years of delay do not make that much difference in the long run. We need to make computer science more approachable for everyone.