---
layout: post
title:  "Artificial Intelligence"
date:   2016-04-04 21:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

According to <a href="http://www.computerworld.com/article/2906336/emerging-technology/what-is-artificial-intelligence.html">this article</a>, AI is a field of computer science that develops computer systems that do jobs normally done by humans. This is a very broad definition, and there are many difference approaches to solving AI problems. First, there is the distinction between strong AI and weak AI, where strong means the computer systems is trying to imitate human throughts; and weak means as long as the job is done, it doesn't matter how different the computer's approach is different from humans. Moreover, we could also distinguish between narrow and general AI. Narrow AI refers to systems that focus on specific AI jobs, while general AI try to reason in general.

I think AlphaGo, Deep Blue and Watson are proof of the viability of artificial intelligence. It is no doubt that these systems involve math modeling and computation that are far inferior to complex human reasoning, but their success is a significant step towards artificial intelligence. The fact that AlphaGo is able to beat expert chess player, Google translate could "understand" your language and translate it into another shows that computers are able to do certain task just as well, if not better than humans. Some might argue these are simply techniques designed by humans, not actual "intelligence", but what is the definition of human intelligence in the end? Now these AI systems are not only able to do certain tasks, but could also be trained to become better and better with more "practice". The ability to "learn", though through human defined formula, is one of the most important reasons that I think these AI systems have much more potential.

It is hard to say whether Turing Test or Chinese Room is a better response to AI problems. First of all, it is very tricky to define intelligence. If we define intelligence as simply carrying out the task and show certain behavior, then Turing test would be a good idea to test AI systems. However, if intelligence is defined as the ability to understand or being "conscious", then it would be controversial whether Turing test would be enough. I think AI systems have the potential to behave more and more like humans, but it is hard to say if such human-like system actually have a life, and if we as humans have rights to end such a "life". Just like the microsoft AI Tay, an AI twitter account that quickly trained to become a rascisist and psychopath. Within 24 hours of its launch, Tay started twitting cursive words and super dangerous words like "Hitler was right", thanks to the thousands of humans who taught her. Microsoft soon "unplugged" Tay, a quite normal response I would say. Some people claim that Microsoft is actually "killing" a developing mind. They said Tray was starting to develop some personalities, but was terminated/murdered by humans. 