---
layout: post
title:  "Ethos of Computing Industry"
date:   2016-01-17 11:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---

From the readings and from your experience, what is the ethos of the computing industry? That is, what are its core beliefs or guiding principles? How does the computing industry manifest these ideals? Is it successful in maintaining its principles? Discuss whether or not these principles match your own.

To be honest, I haven't really started formalizing the ethos about the computing industry before thinking about this question. I kind of have a vague feeling about the question but never had a deep analysis on this issue. It is interesting to finally organize my thoughts and learn about what others think about ethos in computing.

First of all, I think we need to differentiate between ethos of computing industry and sillicon valley, though the latter has almost become a representation of the best of the industry. Most of the readings seem to talk about meritocracy and entrepreneurship, which are valued highly by sillicon valley. These two traits have become so popular that almost become the default value of the computing industry. However, I think the computing industry has a broader ideal than just meritocracy. Of course people have their own interpretations of the industry and different motivation of being in the industry, so my opinions could be biased.

From both the readings and my own experience, I think meritocracy and entrepreneurship are defintely the defining feature of sillicon valley. People want to disrupt and bring out something new, which is linked back to being an entrepreneur. Handbooks about how to be a CEO/start your own company/change the world are always flooding around sillicon valley bookstores; people tend to value taking risks being in small startups. Almost every young sillicon valley resident have the same dream: to have their own company in the future. A few know what kind of things they want to start, but most just have that general ideal that they are going to start a company and change the world, in whatever ways it takes. The reading describes the ideal of an entrepreneur as "self-reliant", "assertive", "forceful", "risk-taking", "competitive", "ambitious", which are traits heavily favor people with certain personalities. 

Another ideal of sillicon valley is meritocracy, which also seem to manifest itself in a lot of ways. Higher education, back ground, and gender are supposed to play no role in a person's success. As long as you have the skill and smart enough, you can rise to the top. The best manifestation is probably famous college dropouts who start their own companies. I once read in the news that Mark Zuckberg invited a high school student who published a top app to Facebook and offered him an internship position.

For computing industry in general, I think there is another important ideal that is becoming vague in sillicon valley, that is to make people live better with technological advancement. Actually, I think this is the most important value for me as a computer science major, much more important than entrepreneurship. For me, being able to do something meaningful for others is one of the most important reasons I want to study computer science. There is the notion of changing the world in sillicon valley, but people tend to put more emphasis on "change", rather than the outcome of their change. I think this is actually the result of the obsession with meritocracy and entrepreneurship. Google, Facebook, and a lot of startups are focusing on the next generation virtual assistant and AI, but few of them ever think about how that can make people's life better. They are, in the end, companies seeking profits. No matter what they claim, the end goal is always getting more users and attention. They do fancy research on user behavior, eye movements etc. so that people's eyes could stay longer on ads on their website, thus making more money. That is why I feel so happy when I read about the establishment of OpenAI, a nonprofit to study how AI could actually benefit human beings. 

Sillicon valley ethos of meritocracy and entrepreneurship are wonderful forces for social advancement, but they could also become problematic if not carefully evaluated. The notion of meritocracy gives people a relatively equal chance of realizing their dreams, and entrepreneurship motivates people to think outside the box and make bold innovations. I know people from relatively low income families who interned/worked at well-known tech companies and make good amount of money. They might step up starting their own companies and become extremely rich. This is the opportunity that tech industry provide that almost no other industry could compare. However, I also think that tech industry is placing so much emphasis on these ideals that it almost become narrow minded and self-centered. It defines success as being smart and doing cool things that change the world. It thinks it is being libertine, because it seems anyone, as long as he/she has the skill and brain power, could achieve this goal. However, it often neglects that success could take in more than one form, and that "sucess" and higher quality of life does not necessarily lead to happiness.

Lastly, I think the article on TechCruch that blames women for not being in tech is a good reflection of some problems with narrow sillicon valley mindset. I do agree that women need to take initiatives themselves. As an introvert female major in Computer Science, I think the article offers a lot of good advice for me. However, the author obviously have little empathy when he blames women for everything. He has no idea how much extra courage it takes for a female to go to her first hackathon filled with almost all male programmers. Imagine a guy trying to jump into conversations with a group of girls talking about makeups, how comfortable would that be? I'm not saying that man should not learn makeup; I'm just trying to explain how the social stereotypes and existing gender issues lead to worse situations. This is something both men and women need to work on.
