---
layout: post
title:  "Interpretation of Parable of Talents"
date:   2016-01-11 22:38:00 -0600
categories: jekyll update
---
In this blog post I will discuss some of my interpretation of the Parable of Talents. The two servants who traded with others not only got more for their master, but were also rewarded by the master. On the other hand, the servant who was only given one talent and saved it for himself was punished by the master. 

This story emphasizes the importance of sharing and communicating with others. People with more talents will get more by sharing and trading with others. The servant with only one talent probably was worried that trading with others might make him lose the only thing he had. However, saving the talent and hiding it from everyone would actually be the reason he lost the talent. Therefore, even people who do not have abundance of talents need to communicate, share, and learn from others. The last few sentences of the story explain who are really the ones who have. People who have talents but not willing to share with others are not really having the talents, because these talents will be taken away. Therefore they do not really have the talents. To everyone who has talents and willing to share with others and learn from others, more talents will be given.

This story is enlightening for my life and computation skills. The things I have are given to me so that I can share with others. If I keep them only to myself and hide them from others, they will lose their meaning. Something in the modern world that kind of echos the story is finance and investments. You might gain more money by investing your savings, but keeping the savings to yourself reduces the value because it suffers from inflation. The same is true for almost everything. Accumulating material things and keeping them all to myself would make me lose everything, because the things themselves do not have meaning if they are not used. I need to share the extras with others, and others might share theirs with mine. In this way we will all be able to have more than what we had before.

The same logic also applies to the knowledge and computer science skills I have. Keeping the knowledge all to myself would actually make me lose these talents, especially for computer science skills because the field is developing so fast. I need to be willing to share my knowledge  with others, work with other people, so that everyone can learn more from each other. Helping other people debug would make me a better programmer because I could learn about their mistakes and avoid them in the future. Explaining an algorithm to others could help me understand better about the concepts, and might even make me realize my mistakes if I did not understand it correctly. GitHub is also a great example of how trading with others makes one learn more. People post their code for everyone to learn and use, so that everyone benefits from the sharing of knowledge. The various open source software also testifies the significance of sharing. People could learn good coding style from others who contribute to the software; errors and bugs could also be discovered more easily since so many people are testing the code.